# System.Net

The **System.Net** namespace is standalone, so you need use `require "PLoop.System.Net"` to load it. It provides socket features and protocols.

Since this is a pure Lua lib, so it don't directly provide the socket function, you need use [LuaSocket][], so the `System.Net.Socket` class can
be used, or [NgxLua][] to use the `NgxLua.Net.Socket` and `NgxLua.Net.WebSocket` in [OpenResty][].

For now, the namespace provide the MQTT protocol for both server and client, it'll be discussed in [023.mqtt.md](./023.mqtt.md).


## Enums
----

For now, only two enums are needed in the namespace:

**System.Net.ProtocolType** - Specifies the protocols that the Socket class supports, for simple only two protocol type now.

* TCP - 6, Transmission Control Protocol
* UDP - 17, User Datagram Protocol


**System.Net.SocketShutdown** -  The constants that are used by the Shutdown method

* RECEIVE - 0, Disables a Socket for receiving
* SEND    - 1, Disables a Socket for sending
* BOTH    - 2, Disables a Socket for both sending and receiving


## Exceptions
----

There are plenty exceptions can be raised during operations, normally time out exception is acceptable and we can continue the works, and
other exceptions should terminate it.

**System.Net.TimeoutException** - The timeout exception for socket

**System.Net.SocketException**  - The socket exception, it'll contains the socket messages, raise it like `throw SocketException(error)`

**System.Net.ProtocolException**- The protocol error exception, things like protocol implemented


## Structs
----

**System.Net.LingerOption** - The member struct type used for LingerState property.

* Enabled    - Boolean, whether to linger after the Socket is closed
* LingerTime - Number, the amount of time to remain connected after calling the Close() method if data remains to be sent.


## Interface
----

Since the socket class type are defined based on other Libs or platforms, the **System.Net** only provide an interface for socket classes.

**System.Net.ISocket** - The socket interface to be implemented

* Properties:
    * AcceptTimeout     - Number, Gets or sets a value that specifies the amount of time after which a synchronous Accept call will time out(in seconds)
    * ReceiveTimeout    - Number, Gets or sets a value that specifies the amount of time after which a synchronous Receive call will time out(in seconds)
    * SendTimeout       - Number, Gets or sets a value that specifies the amount of time after which a synchronous Send call will time out(in seconds)
    * ConnectTimeout    - Number, Gets or sets a value that specifies the amount of time after which a synchronous Connect call will time out(in seconds)
    * EnableBroadcast   - Boolean, Gets or sets a Boolean value that specifies whether the Socket can send or receive broadcast packets
    * Connected         - Boolean, Gets a value that indicates whether a Socket is connected to a remote host as of the last Send or Receive operation.
    * LingerState       - LingerOption, Gets or sets a value that specifies whether the Socket will delay closing a socket in an attempt to send all pending data.
    * NoDelay           - Boolean, Gets or sets a Boolean value that specifies whether the stream Socket is using the Nagle algorithm.
    * ProtocolType      - ProtocolType, Gets the protocol type of the Socket.

* Methods:
    * Accept()                      - Creates a new Socket for a newly created connection
    * Bind(address, port)           - Associates a Socket with a local endpoint
    * Listen([backlog])             - Places a Socket in a listening state
    * Connect(address, port)        - Establishes a connection to a remote host
    * Receive(count)                - Receives data from a bound Socket
    * ReceiveFrom(address, port)    - Receives data from an endpoint
    * Send(message)                 - Sends data to a connected Socket
    * SendTo(address, port, message)- Sends data to the specified endpoint.
    * Shutdown(SocketShutdown)      - Disables sends and receives on a Socket
    * Disconnect()                  - Closes the socket connection and allows reuse of the socket.
    * Close()                       - Closes the Socket connection and releases all associated resources


### System.Net.Socket
----

If you have [LuaSocket][] installed, you can use `System.Net.Socket`, since it's only a wrap to the lua socket, the usages are normally the same. Here is some examples:


1. TCP Server & Client

    ```lua
    -- Server part
    require "PLoop.System.Net"

    PLoop(function(_ENV)
        import "System.Net"

        server = Socket()
        server:Bind("*", 5555)
        server:Listen()

        client = server:Accept()
        client.ReceiveTimeout = 1

        while client.Connected do
            local ok, ret = pcall(client.Receive, client, "*l")
            if ok then
                print(ret)
            elseif not Class.IsObjectType(ret, TimeoutException) then
                client:Close()
                print(ret)
            else
                print("waiting")
            end
        end

        server:Close()
    end)

    ```

    ```lua
    -- Client part
    require "PLoop.System.Net"

    PLoop(function(_ENV)
        import "System.Net"

        client = Socket()

        client:Connect("127.0.0.1", 5555)

        client:Sleep(3)
        client:Send("HI\n")
        client:Sleep(3)
        client:Send("Bye\n")

        client:Close()
    end)

    ```


2. UDP Example:

    ```lua
    -- Server side
    require "PLoop.System.Net"

    PLoop(function(_ENV)
        import "System.Net"

        server = Socket(ProtocolType.UDP)
        server:Bind("*", 5555)

        while true do
            print(server:Receive())
        end
    end)

    ```

    ```lua
    -- Client Side
    require "PLoop.System.Net"

    PLoop(function(_ENV)
        import "System.Net"

        client = Socket(ProtocolType.UDP)
        client:Connect("127.0.0.1", 5555)

        client:Sleep(3)
        client:Send("hi")
        client:Sleep(3)
        client:Send("bye")
        client:Close()
    end)

    ```



### NgxLua.Net.Socket & NgxLua.Net.WebSocket

With [NgxLua][], `NgxLua.Net.Socket` and `NgxLua.Net.WebSocket` are created based on `ngx.socket`, we can get the request socket object like

```
# nginx.conf
stream {
    server{
        listen 1883;

        content_by_lua_block {
            local socket = PLoop.NgxLua.Net.Socket(ngx.req.socket(true))
        }
    }
}

http {
    server {
        listen 9001;

        location / {
            content_by_lua {
                local socket = PLoop.NgxLua.Net.WebSocket()
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Normally this is useless without special protocols, we'll see the usages in the [023.mqtt.md](./023.mqtt.md).



## System.Net.Protocol


Take the MQTT protocol as an example, it's defined like

```lua
System.Net.Protocol "MQTT"  {
    -- ptype: packet type
    -- packet: packet data
    -- level : mqtt protocol level

    -- The method used to convert the mqtt packet into string messages
    make                    = function(ptype, packet, level)
    end,

    -- The method used to get the packet data from socket or string message
    parse                   =  function(socket, level)
    end,
```

Then the protocol can be used like

```lua
-- Get mqtt packet from socket
local ptype, packet = System.Net.Protocol.MQTT.ParsePacket(socket, System.Net.MQTT.ProtocolLevel.V3_1_1)


socket:Send(System.Net.Protocol.MQTT.MakePacket(System.Net.MQTT.PacketType.CONNECT, { level = System.Net.MQTT.ProtocolLevel.V3_1_1 })
```

So the make will be converted to the MakePacket, the parse will be converted to the ParsePacket. But normally
there is no need to call those methods directly, check the next  [023.mqtt.md](./023.mqtt.md) for easy usages.



[LuaSocket]: http://w3.impa.br/~diego/software/luasocket/tcp.html "LuaSocket"
[Openresty]: https://github.com/openresty/lua-nginx-module/ "Openresty"
[NgxLua]: https://github.com/kurapica/NgxLua/ "An implementation for the Openresty"